THE MlRACLE OF BERN
Ruhr region. spring 1954
Alemannia Aachen one.
Rot-Weiss Essen ...
nil.
Man!
Come. Lord Jesus. be our guest ...
- Amen.
What about your job?
l didn't go. - What?
What d'you mean?
- l didn't go.
For weeks l've been telling
Hartwig to hire you.
and you don't even show up.
- l won't work for an ex-Nazi!
Weekends you'll help me at the bar.
- No way. Gotta practice Negro music.
Forget it!
You're going to work. and that's it!
Stop treating me like a kid.
- What's wrong. Mattes?
Eat something.
- l'm not hungry.
That's all you're getting.
Rot-Weiss Essen lost. Mom.
- They always lose. - Rubbish!
Mattes ... - lt's not so bad!
- Oh. Mom!
One-nil ...
Damn it!
To Aachen. of all teams!
What's wrong. Atze?
Come here. Tastes good.
See? Blacky likes it. too.
We'll never be German champions.
Hi guys!
Hello!
Hey. that looks good.
l need some supplies.
Smells good.
- You still owe me from last time.
You'll get your money.
The band's paying me tomorrow.
Band? - lt's another name
for a music group. Sounds better.
Mom says not to forget your homework.
- l did it already.
So ... did you get over it?
- Yeah ... - Christa ...
Pour me another ...
- Haven't you had enough?
Always room for one more.
Say a sentence with ''dididid.''
You got money?
- Dididid a bike trip. Dididid it rain.
My mother wants to know
when you're gonna pay your bill.
You're worse than your old man.
- Watch it. buddy!
My old man's been in Russia
for 11 years. so l'm in charge now.
So. when's it gonna be?
As soon as l find work.
No sweat.
l'll hold you to it.
Alright ...
l gotta go to practice.
Handball?
Very funny.
Ouch! Damn it!
Trying to kill me. fart face?
Sorry. but we're late.
Late for what?
For practice.
- What's today anyway?
Tuesday.
- What's the time?
4:30.
Okay. 15 minutes.
Jesus. Boss. you look awful!
Yeah. it was a long night.
We had a meeting.
A meeting? What about?
l forgot.
We're really in a hurry.
- Mattes. you sure are a pest.
First you almost stone me.
and then you rush me.
Can't you just ring the bell?
Your predecessor Mischa was good.
He'd be waiting with two ice-cold beers
after every game.
Hey. Kottel!
You're not offended. are you?
No. but ...
lf l'm not good enough.
you might find another bag boy.
Nonsense. Mattes!
You're my mascot.
l only win when you're there.
You saw what happened in Aachen.
You don't think so? lt's true!
l always win those close games
when you're there.
Come on.
Hurry.
or l get charged for coming late.
That's what l said.
Man oh man!
Look at Boss crawl across the field.
- Old men can't run. Willi.
No wonder they lose in Aachen.
Man!
- My grandma could've done that. too.
Helmut. you couldn't even
hit a truck from 3 meters!
l heard that. Willi!
Where've you been?
- What's wrong?
She didn't want to open it
until everybody was here.
What if he's dead?
We're gonna be a real family again.
Hey ...
Aren't you happy?
Sure.
Munich
Wewetzer through the middle.
passes to Paetz who passes to Kruhl.
Kruhl shoots ... lt's a goal!
Kruhl scores in the 81st minute.
That was the decisive goal
in Hamburg Stadium.
Stay seated.
- 4-1. - Not bad.
For Hanover.
- What?
Honest. - Hanover's leading
Kaiserslautern four to one?
Yeah.
- Unbelievable! - lt's true.
A remarkable final game for the German
championship. The crowd is mocking
Coach Herberger.
Kaiserslautern.
the team that's losing here.
is the backbone of the German team.
What a dark hour
for the German team coach.
A dark hour too for Annette
Ackermann. maiden name von Hadding.
Annette!
- Hello. gentlemen!
Off work already?
- No. of course not. Sorry.
Sorry.
Hey. what's wrong with soccer?
l mean. l'm a sports reporter.
You have your good sides. too.
Come to a game with me sometime ...
- Just what l needed.
Hey. l've been looking
for this everywhere.
What is it?
- Morocco.
Dad gave us the house and a wedding
trip. Perhaps you'd like to join me.
lf you can find time between
soccer matches. - A honeymoon?
You proposed. l accepted.
and we got married. - Right.
We could go to Egypt afterwards. too.
to see the pyramids.
lt sounds more like a crusade.
- l knew you'd love the idea.
What if he doesn't show up again?
- Stop it. l'm nervous enough.
l just hope he's okay. Who knows
what the Russians did to him.
The Russians! The Russians!
The Russians kicked the Germans' ass.
'cause the Germans
attacked them for no reason.
Christa!
l'm ... l'm lngrid.
And who's he?
l wrote you about him.
l never got a letter.
l'm sorry ...
Matthias arrived after you were
sent back to the front.
9 months after you were sent back.
- You'll speak when you're asked to.
You named him after my father?
Well ... this is it.
We're closed today.
in your honor.
lt's just a 5-minute bike ride
to the coal mine.
You work behind the counter?
- Yes. and lngrid is a waitress.
What about Bruno?
- Not me. l'm a musician.
A musician. huh?
- Yeah.
And who's this?
- The Boss.
So they call him.
Actually. his name's
Helmut Rahn.
- He plays for Rot-Weiss Essen.
and he's on the national team.
And he's my best friend.
The World Cup's in Switzerland ...
- Your best friend!
l carry his bag
and get to see the games for free.
He's sort of his father figure.
The kids are completely ...
lt's time they got some discipline.
l had so little time for them.
with the bar and all ...
Things will change
when l get my compensation.
l'll work in Shaft No. 4 again.
so l can feed my family myself.
Then we can sell the bar.
Just give me some time. Christa.
Morning. Ackermann. - Morning.
Mr. Ahrens. - Congratulations.
Thanks. - ls your wife expecting?
- No. but we're working on it.
Good. But be careful.
Women are the natural enemy of soccer.
Eventually the nagging subsides.
- Whatever you say.
Listen. Ackermann. l have a problem.
- Yes?
l need a good man
to go to Switzerland.
What? To the World Cup?
- Exactly.
l thought
Schwerdtfeger was doing that.
l took him off it. Herberger was
so annoyed by his last commentary.
l need somebody with a clean slate
down there. a guy with talent!
You mean ... me?
A guy who grasps things at once.
Nothing ...
as far as the eye can see.
Honey. help me choose a dress.
Annette. l got to tell you something.
- Huh?
We have to cancel our honeymoon.
Ahrens is sending me
to the World Cup.
No!
The chance of a lifetime.
l can't say no.
Are you trying to tell me that soccer
is more important than our honeymoon?
24 guys running after a single ball?
22.
Fine. 22. for all l care.
lt'd be boring
if everyone had a ball.
Okay. Ackermann!
What d'you mean by ''okay''?
- You can go.
l can?
- Under one condition.
Which is?
l'm going with you.
Don't be sad. Kottel.
l'll be back soon. - Can't l go. too?
How? You wanna sleep under my bed?
- Why not?
'cause l share with Fritz Walter.
and he can't sleep when you snore.
And if he can't sleep.
he won't play well.
and we'll lose and be eliminated.
You want that? - No. - You see.
But you said you couldn't win
the big games without me.
You're right. But it won't work.
What would your father say?
l wish you were my father.
Don't ever say that. Mattes.
Your father went through a lot.
And he needs you here.
Things will get better soon.
Yeah.
- Okay.
Now read it again.
but slowly. so l can enjoy it.
''Dear sports fans.
We are glad to inform you
that we are expecting you
on Wednesday.
May 26. 1954
at the Sports Academy
in Munich-Grunwald.
We wish to point out that all players
receive compensation for missing work
while the team is participating in
the competition. Regards. Passler.''
They better have enough cash.
Time to go.
Come on!
Good luck. Boss!
You too. fart face!
Careful!
Please welcome
our national goalkeeper. Anton Turek.
Of course we all call him Toni.
He brought something
for our campaign in support
of soldiers returning from Russia.
Yes.
l have an original
World Cup soccer ball ...
signed by all the players
from Fortuna Ousseldorf.
We hope you raise lots of money
for the returning soldiers.
and wish good luck
to all the participants.
l would be happy if.
with your support.
some of the returning soldiers were able
to live normal lives again.
Yes.
- Thank you.
This darned thing!
Reception's lousy!
Take the expensive thing back
while you still can.
lf you want to compete with Kessler.
then you'd better keep it.
You know how men
are crazy about soccer.
Like your nutty son.
He actually believes
Rahn can't win without him.
The big games. He said so himself.
... for the final training
before the World Cup in Switzerland.
Leading the attack
and the first to leave the bus.
Max Morlock from Nuremberg.
followed by Helmut Rahn from Essen
and Berni Klodt from Schalke 04.
Toni Turek from Ousseldorf
flanked by Pirmasens' Heinz Kubsch
and Heinrich Kwiatkowski
from Oortmund.
Assistant Coach Albert Sing
has Otmar Walter from Kaiserslautern
and Herbert Erhardt
from Furth run the course.
These two will go to bed
with a headache.
Karl-Heinz Metzner from Hessen-Kassel
and Uli Biesinger from BC Augsburg.
Rivals at home. here they work
together to crush their opponents.
Alfred Pfaff from Eintracht Frankfurt
and Richard Herrmann. FSV Frankfurt.
This will certainly command
our opponents' respect.
Paul Mebus from Cologne
demonstrates his footwork.
while his teammate Hans Schafer
is no less nimble.
Recovering from practice
with a friendly card game
are Werner Liebrich. Horst Eckel and
Werner Kohlmeyer from Kaiserslautern.
The Bavarians are more relaxed.
Karl Mai from Furth
and Hans Bauer from Bavaria Munich.
Fritz Laband and Jupp Posipal
from Hamburg
carry out the most pleasant exercise:
signing autographs.
But isn't someone missing?
Of course.
the captain. And there he is.
Fritz Walter from Kaiserslautern.
Bravo. Fritz Walter.
Smile. please.
And here's the whole team.
Good luck. guys.
Your country's rooting for you.
Welcome home. Richard.
Thanks. - Nice to have you back.
- Things have changed down here.
Good luck.
- Good luck.
Sports Academy Grunwald
Men. it starts in two weeks.
We're playing in Switzerland.
and we want to look good.
But l'm afraid l see major problems
in your physical fitness.
So we'll be doing more gymnastics.
We'll start with pushups.
You gotta work hard.
Make these training sessions pay off.
Work on your weaknesses.
but also train what you do well.
What's the saying? Looks and fitness
are gone before the break of dawn.
You've already lost your looks.
so try to stay fit.
By the way. Metzner.
you're a terrific soccer player.
But you smoke on the sly.
You're cheating your teammates.
You could play a lot better.
So l want you to pack your bags
and head home.
Wasn't that a bit strict?
- Sure. He can stay.
But the guys gotta realize
that l mean business. Let's see. Adi.
lt's lighter than the previous one.
- Right. but that's not what l mean.
Don't keep me in suspense.
They're screwed on.
- Exactly.
Screw-on cleats.
Screwed on.
Brilliant!
For every type of weather
the proper length.
Yeah. they fit perfectly.
Of course. they're screwed on.
Well?
What do you think.
l want two sets for the championship.
Listen. lngrid. you are not to have
any contact with soldiers.
But l didn't do anything ...
- And don't get all dolled up!
That's not true.
l just wanted to ...
As long as you live in my house
there are certain rules
that you have to obey.
ls that clear?
Tip.
- Top.
- Top. - Tip ...
Okay. l'll take Lang.
- Akki and Nolden are on my team.
We'll take Mischa and Buri.
l'll take Rainer and Carola.
And you get Lubanski.
- No. we get Carola. you get Mattes.
Okay. but next time you get him.
Hey. you're on our team. man!
Shoot!
Goal!
A sentence with x.
- l'm in a fix.
Mom said you used to play soccer.
- Nope.
They only let me play
when we're an odd number.
That girl wasn't bad.
Carola's good. l can't get past her.
Not even when l use Boss's tricks.
'cause you're doing what you can't.
You copy his style.
but it isn't your own.
So what is my style?
- You're tough and fast.
You run more than the others.
You're a defensive player.
lf you want the others' respect.
don't do a bad job of copying a star.
Werner Liebrich.
Werner Liebrich. are you sleeping?
Are you sleeping?
Morning bells are ringing.
Morning bells are ringing ...
Are you sleeping?
Training Camp Spiez
What a lovely breeze.
You ought to bottle it.
Just right for when
you run out of breath.
Hey. look out! - Look at the boaties!
We can paddle around the lake!
Those are pedalos. not boaties.
You only get boaties in Kaiserslautern.
Heard the news. Berni?
The Urus share our practice field.
lncredible! We're together
with the defending champs.
l don't know about you guys.
but l'm getting nervous.
Hey. Helmut. Your wife folded it all
so nicely. and you just stuff it in.
How d'you know what's clean or dirty?
- l smell it. How do you do it?
Hey. the Swiss aren't only good
at making clocks.
l keep wondering why coach punished me
by putting me in a room with you.
You think he'll put me in
against the Turks? l'm in great shape.
Are you starting that again?
Okay. yes. he's putting you in.
But Berni Klodt's in great shape too.
Maybe he'll pick him.
You're right. He'll pick Berni.
Come on. Friedrich. You're kidding.
- Know what?
l'm gonna take a shower.
Strange guy.
Let me guess. You don't like it.
- Well. l always imagined ...
soccer reporters
living in ... squalor.
Well. this suite
was booked for Schwerdtfeger.
l'm sure they would've
put me up under a bridge.
Now. isn't the opening game
between Yugoslavia and France?
Right.
- Who are we for?
For nobody. We're reporters.
We have to remain neutral.
And when Germany plays Turkey?
We're for Germany. of course.
- We aren't reporters then?
Yes. we are.
lsn't that a bit irrational?
Maybe.
- Like me sometimes?
Hail Mary. full of grace.
the Lord is with you.
Blessed are you among women.
and blessed is the fruit
of your womb. Jesus. Hail Mary ...
Opening Round Germany vs. Turkey
Gentlemen. this is it.
We're playing against Turkey.
The Turks eliminated Spain.
so we can't take it easy.
This is the lineup:
Toni. you're in goal.
On defense:
Laband. Posipal. Kohlmeyer.
Eckel and Mai in running position.
As halfbacks. Morlock and Fritz.
Left forward is Hans Schafer.
in the middle Otmar.
and right forward
is Berni Klodt.
We leave in two hours.
l expect you to be on time.
Goal! We won 4-1.
You played great. Matthias.
So. Mr. Lubanski ...
lt's right that the government is
compensating the returning soldiers.
But the number of years is wrong.
- No. l'd never get that wrong.
11 years and 4 months.
According to my documents.
you were found guilty of theft
and sabotage and sentenced
to an additional 5 years.
That means you weren't a POW
and are not entitled to compensation ...
We stole some brown sugar
from the kitchen. 'cause we were dying.
l don't doubt it. Mr. Lubanski.
but it doesn't change the facts.
You know how many starved to death?
Hundreds of thousands!
l saw hundreds of us die.
Sabotage! Theft!
That was just a joke.
Mr. Lubanski. l didn't make the rules.
You aren't the first to complain.
You should be happy that ...
- Happy?
l should be happy?
You know who can be happy? You!
That you weren't in Russia.
And that l don't
beat your face to a pulp.
Opening Round Germany vs. Hungary
The Hungarians also seem surprised
by the German team's lineup.
But they won't worry about it.
Fifty cents.
What? Admission?
This is daylight robbery!
Hey? Everything okay?
- Nothing's okay.
Herberger's letting the subs play.
Goal!
l knew it! l knew it!
Shit! - Why can't Kwiatkowski
hold the ball? - Matthias?
Come here.
Sit down.
Sell me one of your cigarettes?
- Sure.
Here. it's yours.
- Thanks.
l saw you at church recently.
You lit a candle.
For whom?
Come on. tell me.
For Helmut Rahn.
Helmut Rahn? - Herberger doesn't put
him in. so l thought l'd help.
Come outside with me.
You lit a candle at church to keep
some soccer player from being a sub?
But Rahn isn't just some player.
He's the best.
And l ...
- Will you be quiet?
Where'd you get the idea
of abusing the church?
Go home and think about
what church means.
But they're playing ...
- That's it! Go home!
And don't start crying!
German boys never cry!
What's wrong?
- None of your business.
Can't l even ask?
- Shut up and get inside!
l told you to get inside!
Did you hear that?
''A German boy never cries.''
l wish he'd never come back!
Hurry up. Alfred. l'm hungry ...
Yeah.
8-3!
What a disgrace!
lt's all Herberger's fault!
What's the problem?
l think he's pretty clever.
- You think so. huh?
He's saving his best players
for the game against the Turks.
l'd have done that. too.
- Well. Sepp'd be happy to know that.
Another cold drink?
What's wrong?
3 beers. and get the next 3 ready.
Don't look. Those are players
from the German team.
So what?
They're having a drink like us.
How naive can you be? You think
Herberger'd let them get drunk now?
Ah! You think they jumped the coop?
Yeah.
Let's dance a little closer
to hear what they're saying.
8 goals. huh?
How's it feel to be a stopgap?
- We're fine for the dirty work.
But they'll probably do
the next game without us.
You guys are lucky.
At least each of you scored a goal.
All l got is bruises.
l still have trouble running.
Who cares! Let's wash down
our anger the right way!
At least it'll be worth it
if the old man catches us! - Cheers!
... we are not going home.
My God he's heavy.
- lt's his muscles.
What?
- Look at those thighs!
Every muscle is perfectly trained.
Yeah. whatever.
Who are you. buddy?
- Ackermann. Suddeutsche News.
Great sports section.
- Thanks.
And you. milady?
His wife.
- What a shame.
Let's leave him here. honey. and go.
We'll call the doorkeeper.
We don't want to get involved.
lncredible thighs!
- An incredible story!
Oon't you dare! Or l'll get a divorce.
- Then l won't.
Stop!
Howdy. Mr. Herberger.
Howdy.
l didn't want to startle you.
but l already mopped the floor.
l'd be grateful. if you didn't
walk over it. - At this hour?
Yeah. it's the only time.
Can l sit down and wait
until the floor is dry?
Sure thing.
Oid you lose today?
You bet!
So you've been eliminated?
No. we lost a battle
but not the war.
Young lady. do you have any children?
Who. me?
Nine of 'em. And you?
22. and one of them
is causing me lots of trouble.
l bet he's your favorite.
They always cause the most trouble.
That's why it's hard to punish 'em.
- Nonsense.
What?
- Nonsense! Hogwash! Rubbish!
You aren't in Germany now.
You don't always have to punish 'em.
But if somebody isn't for me.
they're against me.
You gotta turn a blind eye sometimes.
No pain. no gain.
When an apple is ripe
it falls from the tree.
The early bird catches the worm?
The ball is round.
and a game lasts
90 minutes.
Hey. are you crazy?
Maybe. Why? - The coach'll send you home
if he finds out.
Who cares!
One less benchwarmer in Switzerland.
We're a team.
We win together and lose together.
We need you
as much as everybody else.
Too late.
Dassler found me outside the hotel.
Helmut. tell me one thing.
Are you for us or against us?
What do you mean?
- lf you're for us. l'll talk to Adi.
But if it happens again. l'll put you
on the train and kick your ass.
Hey. Friedrich. l've never seen you
like this. Are you serious?
Of course l'm for you guys.
- Okay.
Be careful on track 1.
Train No. 224
from Oortmund to Basel.
via Ouisburg. Ousseldorf. Koln. Bonn.
Koblenz. Mainz. Mannheim. Karlsruhe.
Come on!
l've been looking for you everywhere!
None of that Switzerland stuff!
You're grounded for a week!
Drop your pants!
- What?
l told you to drop your pants.
Bend over!
Stop it. Richard! At once!
Leave me alone!
- You're beating him raw!
Are you against me. too? - What?
- Are you against me?
Don't you care what the kids
and l feel? - Are you blaming me?
Look what you've done! Our oldest son
is a big mouth with Communist ideas.
our daughter a soldier's whore.
and the kid wants to run away!
Ask him why! lt's because of you!
l'm just trying to teach him
discipline to make him fit.
so he'll be somebody.
- l see!
What do you think l've been doing?
l fed the family.
l started the bar. took care of
the household and raised the kids.
Now you come and run everything down
and put things ''right'' again!
l didn't run everything down ...
- Let me tell you something.
Before you came. we were happy.
Since then. the kids feel upset.
sad and wretched.
You want me
to go back to prison camp?
Stop pitying yourself all the time.
Can't you ever think of anyone else?
Since you arrived. everybody's
constantly thinking of your feelings.
Have you ever shown any appreciation?
Bruno earns a few marks with his band.
lngrid helps out in the bar.
Even the kid helps out
by selling cigarettes.
That's discipline!
And one more thing ...
You're the least disciplined of us all!
Ladies and gentlemen.
Your questions. please. Mr. Holzmann.
The lineup in Basel.
the chaos on defense ...
ls that the way
to beat Hungary. Mr. Herberger?
ln two days we have a tough game ...
The Turks beat Korea.
So we have to play them again.
We gotta win!
Mr. Ruhpoldt. please.
8 goals ...
Lots of Germans. not only the experts.
have the feeling
that you've done tremendous damage
to German ''football'' by losing 3-8.
Well ...
The ''football'' we're playing with
is Swiss-made.
and the last time l looked
it was hard and round.
No signs of any damage!
The young colleague over there.
Mr Herberger!
The loss to Hungary was a shock.
Won't this tactic endanger team spirit
in the game against Turkey?
ls it still possible to coordinate
our team's attack and offense?
l mean the defense and defenders ...
What will happen in midfield?
What's going to happen?
Know what. young man?
The ball is round.
and a game lasts 90 minutes.
Germany vs. Turkey. the decisive match
Okay. men. here's the lineup.
Toni's the goalie.
Laband and Posipal are in defense.
Bauer. Eckel and Mai in midfield.
Morlock and Fritz are behind Schafer.
Ottmar and Berni Klodt.
Men. it's the decisive match against
Turkey. You know what that means.
But beforehand. let me read
some letters from our countrymen
back home. in reaction
to the game against Hungary.
''Mr. Herberger. if the coach
of the national team doesn't know
what to offer sports fans
in a situation like this.
then he should buy himself a noose
and hang himself from the next tree.
but do it in such a way
that the rope can be reused.''
''Herberger! You should be
put on trial for sabotage.
You should take
the appropriate measures
which decent people take
in a situation like this.
Resign.''
''Get rid of Herberger!
Fifty lashes on his bare feet
and kick him out of Germany!
That traitor is no longer
one of us!''
Now get out there!
7-2 for us
What's wrong. Coach?
We're one of 8 teams left.
l don't know who to start at right wing.
Berni or the Boss.
You're the captain. Fritz.
What do you think?
Klodt. Rahn. they're both good.
Both have their merits.
Berni's done an excellent job so far.
He plays well with Morlock. We can
rely on them to keep the ball moving.
But we can't play as offensively
against Yugoslavia as against Turkey.
We have to start from the defensive.
Maybe the Boss'd be the right man.
lf he doesn't pass the ball
or passes badly ...
l have the funny feeling
he'll be the deciding factor.
l don't think
the Boss'll disappoint you.
One more disappointment
would be too much. Get my meaning?
Look after him. will you?
Germany vs. Yugoslavia. Quarter-Final
Hello. sports fans!
- Hi.
How's our prisoner?
Sentenced to 5 years of grounding
for desertion
and sabotaging piggy banks.
Ha. ha.
Listen. if he hits you again
l'll hit him back. okay?
Secondly. we all know
imprisonment is a desperate situation
in which
special measures can be taken.
For example. if you can't listen to
the game at cute little Carola's.
it doesn't mean
you can't listen at all.
... the lineup.
Turek is goalie.
Laband and Kohlmeyer are on defense.
Eckel. Liebrich and Mai are
in midfield. Helmut Rahn is forward ...
Rahn's starting!
Dinner!
What? Now?
You'd better come down.
l haven't eaten that well in years.
- Yes. it was delicious. Oad.
Yeah. it was edible.
Can l have another piece?
- Yeah. sure.
Here.
- Thanks.
Actually it's your mother's birthday.
But since l was gone so long.
l have something for everyone.
Here!
Thanks.
Come on. take it.
lt's very pretty.
This may not be from East Berlin.
but it works.
Thanks.
Atze. Blacky.
l gotta show you something.
Atze?
Blacky?
That goalscoring wizard Zebec shoots.
But Toni grabs the ball. Bravo. Toni.
He throws the ball to Laband
who covers for Posipal ...
Mr. Tiburski?
What's the score?
- Still nil-nil.
But the Yugos are all partisans.
You can only get 'em when you see 'em.
Did you happen to see my rabbits?
No. boy. l didn't.
Wait a sec.
lsn't it your mother's birthday?
Yeah. why?
He's in the 16-meter zone
and gets tackled by Kohlmeyer.
Good old Werner is
worth his weight in gold
against the constant
Yugoslavian attack.
l thought you got 'em at market.
As if we could afford it!
Stop shaking your head at me.
- l'll shake it whenever l like.
Shut up and obey!
- ls that all they taught you guys?
''You guys''?
Since when am l ''you guys''?
- Ooesn't matter.
You think l'm a Nazi?
One person alone couldn't do a thing.
You had to join them.
Sure. Alone you're nothing.
The people are everything.
Don't say that to me!
- Oon't ever hit me again.
Oid l hold out for 11 years
to have my son mock me?
l don't want the ball anymore.
Grabitz's rabbit had babies.
l'll get you two if you like.
- l never want rabbits again.
l understand.
Mom?
Was Dad always like that?
- How?
So mean.
Mattes ...
Remember how much it hurt you to know
that Atze and Blacky were gone.
Now imagine that it hurts like that
every day
for 12 years. Every day.
lmagine it.
That's how it was for Dad
when he couldn't go home.
For 12 years.
lt isn't my fault.
ls it Dad's fault?
See? lt's not our fault.
But we can help to make it better.
You're a great little guy. kid.
Dad's a great guy. too.
actually.
lf we help him. you'll be surprised
what a great father you've got.
We just need to be patient.
Everything else will manage itself.
Germany was quite lucky to win 2-0
against Yugoslavia.
Was it right to focus on defense?
Was it right
to put in Rahn for Klodt?
Okay. Rahn scored a goal. but
how important is he really
for Germany's game?
You have it easier than l do. sir.
Your game doesn't begin
until ours is over.
But since we won.
l think l did everything right.
Mr. Herberger! ls it true. Posipal
will be on defense against Austria?
That's my plan.
- You can't do that!
Jupp is out of shape!
We and the home front
are unable to accept that!
Posipal's defending against Austria.
We want to have a strong defense.
We'll see if l'm right or not.
Mr. Herberger!
Weren't you wishing the close game
with Yugoslavia would just be over?
How did you feel after the game?
l've never had that feeling.
After the game is before the game.
Bruno. what're you doing?
Nothing.
l'm packing.
Where to?
l can't tell you.
But why are you leaving?
Come on. you know.
lt just won't work with Oad and me.
Sure it'll get better.
l wanna leave anyway.
l wanna do something meaningful.
Okay ...
l'm going to Berlin. to East Berlin.
To the Eastern zone?
lt's the capital of the GOR.
Everyone's equal there.
There's no rich or poor.
and no unemployment.
There's freedom of speech.
There's no place like that.
- Yes. there is.
l've heard they need good musicians.
Don't go!
Hey. kid!
You're the best man in this family.
That's for sure.
l'm relying on you.
l can rely on you. can't l?
This is for Mom and Dad ...
Don't worry. l didn't write
anything bad. just the truth.
But give me a week to get away first.
okay? You promise?
Come here.
Mr. Lubanski!
- Hello. Pastor.
Sorry for disturbing. Got a minute?
- Of course. Come on.
Who'd have guessed that?
We're in the semi-finals.
And one of our boys shot the goal!
- Yeah. - lncredible!
We're playing Austria. right?
- Exactly.
But that'll be just as difficult ...
l'm not really here
to talk about soccer.
Of course not. Sorry.
l just don't know what to do.
Nothing is the way it was.
l try to do everything right.
But l just make things worse.
Now Bruno's gone.
l've talked to lots
of former prisoners of war.
Most of them are ashamed
of the misery they suffered.
They exclude their families and try
to act strong. but they're afraid
to show their people
what imprisonment did to them.
Didn't you get anything to eat?
No. we didn't.
You see. actually ...
we never got enough to eat.
The Russians themselves
didn't have enough either.
We had destroyed and burned down
everything they had.
l was able to put my hand
around my thigh.
Yes. listeners.
it can't be said often enough:
Germany in the semi-final.
Who ever thought that would happen?
Most important was to see
if you could get up in the morning.
First you touched your bunkmate
to see if he was still warm.
lf he was still alive.
Maybe you could use his boots.
After a while they started sending
guys home when they couldn't work.
Lots of the guys tried to get sick
'cause they wanted to go home.
They drank salt water.
And they died.
The ones who didn't get dystrophy
and could still walk
were sent out in work brigades.
They sent me as an expert
to the open-cast mines in Siberia.
Oid you ever think about home?
l ...
l stopped believing in it.
l stopped thinking about you.
l just counted the winters
and thought about eating.
Now and then. the farmers
smuggled us something to eat.
And on the way back.
a Russian took me to his house.
He showed me a picture
with a ...
black ribbon around it.
A picture of his son.
l know l've treated you wrong ...
But ...
l don't know how to act anymore.
Everything is so strange here.
And with Bruno. that ...
was my fault.
Bruno couldn't take it here anymore.
He took your place for so long.
l think he just wanted to leave.
He's old enough
to make that decision.
But there are three other people here.
They need you.
Semi Final Austria vs. Germany 1-6
A corner for Germany. What a gift!
Will this be the 4th goal?
Fritz Walter kicks the corner again
with his right foot.
The ball is deflected. Goal!
Goal for Germany! Goal!
Otmar Walter.
Otmar Walter ...
Germany 4. Austria 1!
l'm speechless.
You can clearly see
that it's almost as if ...
When you see their expressions.
even from this distance.
our players already seem to be resigned.
lt seems as if ...
l'd like ... let's forget it.
Happel has passed directly
to the Germans again.
What's wrong today? Wagner to Probst.
Probst to Korner 2.
Korner 2 tries a trick.
but it doesn't work.
Korner 2 passes to Stojaspal
who passes back to Korner 2.
who passes back to Probst.
Probst kicks and misses the ball.
Korner 2 should have
taken a shot by now.
Stojaspal should have
But the speed the Germans
are showing today is no magic spell.
We're just too slow.
Stojaspal wants to pass to Probst.
but he is covered by Liebrich.
lt's almost as if Probst were
the baby and Liebrich his mother.
So who are we playing
in the final game?
You're interested? l thought it was just
''24 men chasing a ball''?
You mean recently?
l was just an ignorant child. Well?
Hungary!
They beat Uruguay 4-2 in overtime.
- What a mess!
Those wild and woolly strikers again!
Let's hope we don't lose big time.
What are you saying?
We aren't going to lose again!
That wouldn't be fair!
Oh yeah! Good idea! Let's apply
to the FlFA for a fair outcome
of the championship!
- Okay. wise guy. l tell you this.
We'll win and make shashlik
of the Hungarians!
You mean goulash. dear.
- When l say shashlik. l mean shashlik.
Okay. What do you bet?
lf we have kids.
l get to choose the names.
lf Germany wins.
Otherwise l do.
''As far as l'm concerned. you are
the natural successor to Fritz Walter.
Good luck. Yours. Carmen Ballmann.''
Well?
Carmen Ballmann! Admit it. Horst.
You wrote that yourself!
Hey. she's an absolute soccer expert.
There's no doubt about it.
Look at that. Fritz. The kids.
l bet we interrupted their prayers.
What good little boys.
- Hey. isn't that the guy
who crossed the pitch with a guide dog?
- Exactly!
Hey. guys. l know you rarely use
your brains. so l'll say this slowly:
We are in the final!
The game where they drape you
with gold and carry you off the pitch.
And they make statues of men like me.
- Or hamburger ...
if you don't find the goal soon.
- Right.
What about your goals? 6-1!
Everybody got to try today.
but you just picked your nose.
Come on. let's go where real guys
like us are respected. To Toni's.
l gotta give him a talking to
for letting 'em score.
Sleep tight. guys.
But not 8 goals again.
Or they'll say. the Turks were weak.
the Yugoslavians were unlucky ...
Right. 4-3 ...
We could live with that.
The best thing would be
if they beat us in overtime.
l'm fed up with this!
Why are you talking about losing?
Why would we lose?
- Of course l want to win. but ...
But what?
l never thought l'd say this.
but take the Boss. for example.
All he talks about
is stuffing Grosics's goal.
You know what? He's right.
l'd like to thank you for this
unscheduled talk. Mr. Herberger.
Wasn't our participation
in the final unscheduled?
ls there some kind of secret
about this German team?
lt has one brain.
the thinker and leader. Fritz Walter.
Our success is unthinkable
without that key figure.
lf he'd been injured
we wouldn't be sitting here now.
Herberger! Herberger!
Strange. huh?
Those are the same people
who were hostile to you.
because you gave up the first game
for lost.
You're wrong. l had a strategy
that was supposed to win the game.
Unfortunately. it was a big failure.
l don't want to be presumptuous. but
do you really think you stand
a chance against Hungary?
lf it's sunny. the Hungarians will win.
We won't be able to stop them.
Our way of playing's
inferior to theirs.
But what if it rains?
That's Fritz Walter weather.
The turf gets soggy.
Then we stand a chance.
Matthias!
Matthias. wake up! Come on. wake up!
What's up?
Get up. We're going on a little trip.
Whose car is this?
l borrowed it from the pastor.
Nice.
Where are we going?
To Bern. to see the final.
- What?
You said the Boss only wins
the big games when you're there.
The Final Game
Damn it!
Gentlemen. we lost the first game
to Hungary 8-3.
That was painful.
But as you all know.
every good thing
has its bad sides ...
and vice versa.
So what do 8 goals teach us?
Hungary is an exceptional team.
Unbeaten for 4 years.
Besides Lorant. Kocsis. Bozsik
and Puskas. they only have players
who have never lost
with the national team.
But that doesn't mean
it isn't possible.
Because ...
we also scored three goals.
That means they're vulnerable.
Here ...
on the left.
Bozsik is so offensive
that he leaves gaping holes behind him.
We have to use that space. Hans ...
that goes especially for you.
Puskas has recovered.
He'll be playing.
He might be weak. but let's assume
that he's dying to go after us.
Werner Liebrich is going to cover him.
Now men.
if we want to win today.
we have to get Hungary where it hurts.
And that isn't Puskas.
lt's Hidegkuti!
He's just a center-forward.
but he pulls the strings in midfield.
He runs their game.
We have to go for him.
That's your job. Horst.
Get on his tail and stay there.
l want him
to dream about you tonight.
We have a big tactical advantage.
We know Hungary's strengths.
But they don't know ours.
They don't know how strong we are.
They don't know
that we're strong enough to beat them.
Adi. get those cleats ready.
- Nothing l'd rather do. Sepp.
lt's okay. Wilhelm. We do our best.
Hey guys. it's time. Those guys
gotta show that they're real men.
We lost the war.
We'll lose the final. too.
Oh. Pastor. you're here. too?
No idea what's wrong with this crate.
l think it's just running
on two cylinders.
Germany in the World Cup final.
a huge sensation.
a real soccer miracle. A miracle
that actually came true.
We owe it to our players'
sense of the game
and the perfection of their style.
The match is about to begin.
So. no long introductions.
just the starting lineup.
... that beat Austria 6-1
in the opening round.
The goalie is Ousseldorf's Turek.
Hamburg's Posipal and Kohlmeyer
from Kaiserslautern in defense.
ln midfield. Eckel and Liebrich
from Kaiserslautern
and Mai from Furth.
Rahn is the right winger.
He comes from Essen.
Then Morlock from Nuremberg.
the Walter brothers from Kaiserslautern
and Cologne's Schafer.
Referee Link from England has just
blown the whistle to start the game.
He's the same official who refereed
the first game against Hungary.
Oh shit! This early in the game!
Now we don't stand a chance.
- Why can't they watch out?
lf this continues. l'm leaving.
Jesus!
Our fears have come true.
The Hungarians' lightning start
had given them the lead.
lt'll be 12-0. And we Germans
will be the fools. Come on. l've had it.
A stupid mistake. Just bad luck.
But it's still 2-0 for Hungary.
lf we have a boy. he'll be Rudiger.
lf it's a girl. she'll be Roswitha.
Roswitha?
Come on. Germany! Come on. Germany!
Come on. guys! Let's go!
Come on! We haven't lost yet!
l learned a trick
when l was in prison camp.
You can do everything
with your imagination.
We even imagined
eating as much as we could.
And if we weren't too worn down
by our hunger pains.
it worked beautifully.
Just close your eyes
and you can be anywhere. even in Bern.
lt's as if you were really there.
Come on. try it!
Goal!
Goal for Germany!
- What did l say?
Maybe we'll get there by half-time.
lt's only 2-1 now. Rahn's shot
was deflected
by a Hungarian defender.
Max Morlock spread his legs and slid
into the ball. nudging it
with his remaining strength
past the Hungarian goalkeeper.
Grosics.
Thank God. lt's no longer 2-0.
lt's now 2-1.
lt's encouraging
and boosts our team's self-confidence.
Goal! Goal!
Rahn has scored! lt's now 2-2.
lt's all even again.
You never pass!
Morlock was wide open in front of
the goal. and you shot into empty space!
Look out for your defense. kiddo.
Those two goals were giveaways.
What got into you guys?
We can't make up for all your mistakes.
Tell that to Kohli.
He can't even pass to the goalie.
You cling to that line. fatty.
- Hey. ''playmaker''. are you blind?
Why do l run my lungs out
if you can't even pass to Fritz?
Quiet down! Right now!
Save your breath. You'll need it.
Haven't you realized it yet?
We can be world champions!
And you have nothing better to do
than yell at each other. lt's 2-2.
The Hungarians are mad. They're gonna
jump all over you in the 2nd half.
So watch out! You gotta keep it up
for 45 more minutes!
Go out and fight!
One for all. all for one! ls that clear?
Really exciting. huh?
- You bet.
Matthias. l wanted to apologize to you.
You know. about the rabbits.
That's okay.
l just wanted us to have good food
on Mother's birthday.
We are reporting again from Bern.
The score at the start
of the 2nd half is 2-2.
Hungary's two goals were scored
by Puskas and Czibor.
Germany's goals by Morlock and Rahn.
Welcome to the World Cup
Buzanszki's header hits the crossbar.
A close call. but the ball is ...
We can't get any closer.
We'll meet here. Get going.
You come too. Dad.
- Go on. get moving.
They can't win without you.
You're faster without me.
Hungary's throw-in ...
Lantos shoots!
Liebrich stops the ball.
Kocsis from the left wing ...
The ball is cleared!
Turek clears the ball!
Turek. you're a super guy!
Turek. you're a soccer god!
Please. excuse my excitement.
Soccer laymen will think we're crazy!
But remember.
today is truly Germany's soccer day.
Hidegkuti's shot blasted
at Germany's goal from just 3 meters
is blocked by Turek.
6 minutes left in Wankdorf Stadium
in Bern. Nobody is giving way.
lt's raining incessantly.
But the spectators aren't leaving.
How could they?
The World Cup takes place every 4 years.
And how many games
are so evenly matched. so exciting?
Rahn is fouled!
Bozsik. always Bozsik.
the Hungarian midfielder. with the ball.
He loses the ball
to Schafer this time.
Schafer passes to midfield!
A head ball! The ball is cleared!
Rahn should take a shot.
He shoots!
Goal! Goal! Goal!
3-2 for Germany over Hungary.
a team that hasn't lost a game
for 4 1/ 2 years.
The second hand is moving so slowly.
l stare over at it.
Speed up! Faster! But ist doesn't.
lt moves with the precision
it's been designed to have.
Now only 1 1/ 2 or 2 minutes.
Germany leads 3-2.
The Hungarians are going wild.
Puskas with the ball at the center.
The Hungarians have a chance.
Pass to the right wing. Czibor.
Shoots ...
Toni grabs the ball. He's got it!
45 minutes are over.
No more than a minute extra time.
But it's risky.
Hungary on the right wing ... Fritz
Walter kicks the ball out of the bounds.
Who could blame him?
Hungary gets a throw-in.
The ball is thrown in ... to Bozsik.
lt's over! Over! Over!
The game is over!
Germany are world champions!
They beat Hungary 3 goals to 2!
We Welcome the World Champion
Singen station 2 days later
Ackermann. this is insane!
They'll squash us!
What else can l do? Ahrens gave me
clear orders to take this train!
l'm not going with you!
- Why not. Annette?
l can't do that to Dante.
- Who's Dante?
You really ought to know. He's your son.
My son? Dante?
l choose the names. Remember?
Annette. l don't believe it.
You're ...
How do you know it's a boy?
l can feel it.
Annette ...
Annette. you're wonderful.
You know what?
Screw this train!
- Ackermann. what are you doing?
Oon't argue! The family comes first.
You have to take it easy.
Excuse me. Excuse me.
Excuse me. Thank you.
Hey. kid. You're wanted.
lsn't this a madhouse?
Thanks.
Sorry. you can't enter here.
Why not? l was on the train
and got off to get my son.
Who are you?
Ackermann. Suddeutsche News.
ls that him?
Hey. Mattes. what are you doing here?
l don't believe it.
- Two ice-cold bottles of beer.
You told me you couldn't win
the big games without me.
That's right. Wasn't l right?
Wasn't l right?
Are you here all by yourself?
- No. with my father. - Lubanski.
Pleased to meet you. Rahn.
Looks like we owe the win to you.
Looks like it. A great goal!
l wish l had your nerves.
Go in there. l'll be right back.
l just have to toast with somebody.
Coach!
Here. one of my buddies brought me
some real beer at last.
l thought l'd share it with you.
- Nobody's ever gonna change you.
lf anybody can. you can.
And who's this?
Fits like a glove.
Wanna have it?
Toni. come here.
Some girls want your autograph.
Girls? Where?
What do you think of the Boss?
He's quite a guy.
Nobody's as good as he is.
You are.
You're as good as he is.
- Holy cow! That's quite a compliment.
This is from Bruno.
l promised
l wouldn't give it to you sooner.
Dad. what's wrong?
Bruno ...
He wishes us all the best.
He says we can visit him anytime.
Look at your father.
Sitting here crying
like a little kid.
You know ...
l think German boys
can cry now and then.
The Bern team
never played together again.
ln Memory of
HELMUT RAHN